+++
date = '2025-03-30T17:00:01+05:30'
draft = false
title = 'About'
+++
You are breathing, of course, but unconsciously. Just close your eyes and observe the air coming through your nose. Suddenly your breathing pattern changes. What was just an unnoticeable in-out action suddenly becomes noticeable. You start filling more air in your chest. You breathe out lesser. If you continue for few minutes, your spine starts getting erect. Randomness in thoughts reduces... All with simply observing your breathing. 

If you then start using your mind to question the observations you dig even deeper.  Why am I breathing ? Ok, but why am I breathing so many times in a second ? Don't know. Just stop breathing. In a minute, you will feel uncontrollable and you will start gasping for air. So, one thing is established. Whatever it is that breathing is doing is very important. But what is it that I need every second ? Say, I'm sleeping still I'm breathing. When I'm running still I'm running. What is it that I'm needing every second ? I need energy every second. Though I may not be doing any external activity lot of activity is happening and everything needs energy. So, there has to be some correlation of breathing with energy. If I'm breathing where is it being stored ? I can observe my chest and belly bulging while breathing in. So, that indicates presence of some hollow space inside my body to hold the air. Is the air that I'm inhaling same as the air that I'm exhaling ? Well, if it is same then body did not use it at all. And if it did not use it then what was need of breathing. So, the exhaling air must be different from the inhaling air... And you can go on deeper. 

*Observation yields data and your mind processes it.* Observation does not have any boundaries unless you set it. You can observe anything and with appropriate questions, you can observe even deeper. 

I am **Pavan Sukalkar** and this is my diary (though public). I like to call it diary rather than blog because it is primarily intended for me, I haven't enabled comments on it, though I like to share some entries with friends. Professionally, I work as a Software Engineer so my observations are mainly focused, but not restricted, to software. 